Transposition Cipher:

In cryptography, a transposition cipher is a method of encryption by which the positions held by units of plaintext 
(which are commonly characters or groups of characters) are shifted according to a regular system, 
so that the cipher text constitutes a permutation of the plaintext. 
That is, the order of the units is changed (the plaintext is reordered). 
Mathematically a bi-jective function is used on the characters’ positions to encrypt and an inverse function to decrypt.

Keyed Transposition Cipher:

Keyed transposition cipher uses keys to encrypt and decrypt the messages. 
It shares the same secret key among the senders and the receivers. 
Key is used as position finder for the cipher text. We can illustrate this by giving a nice example as-

Suppose given plaintext is- “prob hatd euri goth erek”. 
And lets the key is=3201. Then the cipher text will be-(Here I assumed starting from 0)

sss

Here for encryption p is placed at 3th position, r is at 2nd, o is at 0th and b is at 1 to get the cipher text from the given key. And for the next words the same is applied. For decryption p is placed at 0th position, r is placed at 1st, b is placed at 3rd and o is placed at 2nd. The same is applied for the next.

The encryption and decryption algorithm for keyed transposition cipher:

For encryption:

Step1: Take the inputs, plaintext and key.

Step2: Calculate the length of the key.

Step3: Divide the plaintext into multiple numbers of words equal to the key length.

Step4: Use the key to encrypt each word.

a. Until the end of a word put each character in its corresponding key position.

b. Do step 4.a to the end of the plaintext.

Step5: Display the encrypted text.

For decryption:

Step1: take the inputs, cipher text and key.

Step2: Calculate length of the key.

Step3: Divide the plaintext into multiple numbers of words equal to the key length.

Step4: Use the key and positions to decrypt each word.

Step5: Display the decrypted message.

The encryption and decryption algorithm both performs the same operations from step1 to step3. 
So we can use functions to do these operations. 
The real hard part of this problem is to write the function for encryption and decryption. 
And encryption and decryption are performed almost in reverse way.